---
layout: post
title: Study Finds Acupuncture Effective in Chronic Pain Relief
---
What a relief!  It is gratifying to those of us who both receive and
administer acupuncture that a new rigorous study financed by the National
Institutes of Health has found that indeed acupuncture is effective in
relieving chronic pain..  It has been my hope that each patient approach
acupuncture with scientific wonder, observation and attention to discover for
herself what shows up when the energy and information of the body _qi_ moves
with breathing, diet, exercise, meditation and acupuncture. [Here is part of
the article][1] from the New York Times:

<blockquote>
    <p>Acupuncture may be helpful in treating migraines, arthritis and chronic pain.</p>
    <p>A new study of acupuncture — the most rigorous and detailed analysis of the treatment to date — found that it can ease migraines and arthritis and other forms of chronic pain.</p>
    <p>The findings provide strong scientific support for an age-old therapy used by an estimated three million Americans each year. Though acupuncture has been studied for decades, the body of medical research on it has been mixed and mired to some extent by small and poor-quality studies. Financed by the National Institutes of Health and carried out over about half a decade, the new research was a detailed analysis of earlier research that involved data on nearly 18,000 patients.</p>
    <p>The researchers, who published their results in Archives of Internal Medicine, found that acupuncture outperformed sham treatments and standard care when used by people suffering from osteoarthritis, migraines and chronic back, neck and shoulder pain.</p>
    <p>“This has been a controversial subject for a long time,” said Dr. Andrew J. Vickers, attending research methodologist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York and the lead author of the study. “But when you try to answer the question the right way, as we did, you get very clear answers.</p>
    <p>“We think there’s firm evidence supporting acupuncture for the treatment of chronic pain.”</p>
    <small>Gordon Welters for The New York Times</small>
</blockquote>

[Here is the abstract][2] of the journal article:

<blockquote>
<p>Acupuncture for Chronic PainIndividual Patient Data Meta-analysis ONLINE FIRST
Andrew J. Vickers, DPhil; Angel M. Cronin, MS; Alexandra C. Maschino, BS;
George Lewith, MD; Hugh MacPherson, PhD; Nadine E. Foster, DPhil; Karen J.
Sherman, PhD; Claudia M. Witt, MD; Klaus Linde, MD; for the Acupuncture
Trialists’ Collaboration Arch Intern Med. Published online September 10, 2012.
doi:10.1001/archinternmed.2012.3654 Text Size: A A A Published online
September 2012 Article Figures Tables References Comments ABSTRACT ABSTRACT |
METHODS | RESULTS | COMMENT | AUTHOR INFORMATION | REFERENCES Background
Although acupuncture is widely used for chronic pain, there remains
considerable controversy as to its value. We aimed to determine the effect
size of acupuncture for 4 chronic pain conditions: back and neck pain,
osteoarthritis, chronic headache, and shoulder pain. Methods We conducted a
systematic review to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of
acupuncture for chronic pain in which allocation concealment was determined
unambiguously to be adequate. Individual patient data meta-analyses were
conducted using data from 29 of 31 eligible RCTs, with a total of 17 922
patients analyzed. Results In the primary analysis, including all eligible
RCTs, acupuncture was superior to both sham and no-acupuncture control for
each pain condition (P &lt; .001 for all comparisons). After exclusion of an
outlying set of RCTs that strongly favored acupuncture, the effect sizes were
similar across pain conditions. Patients receiving acupuncture had less pain,
with scores that were 0.23 (95% CI, 0.13-0.33), 0.16 (95% CI, 0.07-0.25), and
0.15 (95% CI, 0.07-0.24) SDs lower than sham controls for back and neck pain,
osteoarthritis, and chronic headache, respectively; the effect sizes in
comparison to no-acupuncture controls were 0.55 (95% CI, 0.51-0.58), 0.57 (95%
CI, 0.50-0.64), and 0.42 (95% CI, 0.37-0.46) SDs. These results were robust to
a variety of sensitivity analyses, including those related to publication
bias. Conclusions Acupuncture is effective for the treatment of chronic pain
and is therefore a reasonable referral option. Significant differences between
true and sham acupuncture indicate that acupuncture is more than a placebo.
However, these differences are relatively modest, suggesting that factors in
addition to the specific effects of needling are important contributors to the
therapeutic effects of acupuncture.
</p>
</blockquote>

[1]: http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/11/acupuncture-provides-true-pain-relief-in-study/
[2]: http://archinte.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?articleid=1357513
